RallyX Guide
============

Scoring
-------

Every run counts in RallyX. To get your final score, add up the times for all of your runs plus any penalties.

### Cone Penalty

+2 seconds for a toppled or misplaced cone. Call in a downed cone over the radio: "Corner 1, +1 on (car description)". In AxWare, click the "+" to add a cone.

### Missed Gate Penalty

+10 seconds for a missed gate. A missed gate means you took the wrong path through the
course. Call in a missed gate over the radio: "Corner 3, One missed gate on (car description)" In AxWare, enter the number 1 in the MG column.

The results generated by AxWare display a missed gate with a slash. For example, "35.000+2/1" means 35 seconds plus two cones and one missed gate.

### DNF Penalty

300 seconds total for DNF. DNFs are rare in RallyX. It essentially means you did not cross
the finish line. It generally means mechanical failure. (See the section on Debeads and Other Mechanical Failures). Call over the radio: "Corner 2, DNF on (car description)". DO NOT CALL A DNF FOR A MISSED GATE. This is where autocross and rallycross differ. In autocross, missing a gate constitutes a DNF. In rallycross it does not.

In AxWare, mark this run as a DNF.




Debeads and Other Mechanical Failures
-------------------------------------

Say your car debeads or has some other mechanical failure. If you can fix it---or borrow another car---within 10 minutes, you get a rerun. Limit one rerun per driver per event.


Chairing an Event
-----------------

In order to have more events per year, we count on various club members to
step up and take a turn chairing events.

Here is a [checklist for chairing an event](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1_Eogh6xaoxjRnBWRC6WorUiujp6TYkwVuo1swdeJL4s/edit?usp=sharing).

When you chair an event, you don't have to DO everything on the list, but
it becomes your job to make sure all those things happen. Ask for help!



Tech Inspection
---------------

Here is a [decent guide to tech inspection](http://www.emandnar.us/index.php/about/get-through-tech).


Setting Up The Timing Lights
----------------------------

Two pairs of timing lights. The one marked "S" is for start, "F" is for finish.

The unmarked halves (mates) can go with either "S" or "F".

The receiver plugs into the computer. "Eyes" will change from XX to 12 when eyes can see their mates.

Scoreboard plugs into an antenna. (And into power??)





